Hey Luke, how you going?
>> Hey J.
>> Good. How are you?
>> Good. Uh I thought I'd talk you through
the uh the new tempo downwind race stuff
that we've got. Um got one in here.
>> Beautiful.
>> This is uh
kind of the smallest one. Uh it has the
size on it there is 890 span. Uh it's a
16. They're all 16 aspect in the tempo
and it's like a 495 area. Um the rear on
this one is 25 mil. Uh, and this is what
uh the twins and Kai Thompson were
riding in the in the Maui race series
racing. Um, really fast setup. We
actually had quite a few guys uh in the
racing and like in the in the top 20 we
had sort of like nine riders on the
tempo. So, uh, I've improved it a little
bit more since that event. Um, we've
changed the layup and the wings and made
them much much stiffer. Like you can
barely bend the tip of the wing there.
So, a big deal with when you get to 16
aspect ratio is making, you know, the
wing is not very thick through here.
>> So, actually getting it so it doesn't
break, uh, and getting it so it's stiff
enough, so it's not all just wandering
around is a big deal. Um, the other
thing is when you're getting into this
higher aspect, you need to have a really
thin, narrow fuselage system. If you've
got a a bulky fat carbon fuselage
system, there's just kind of no way that
you're going to get a 16 aspect wing to
to perform without having a thinner
finer fuselage. Um, so pretty sleek
system. Uh,
>> how does the whole thing come together?
>> Is it something new that you guys just
recently developed?
>> Yeah, we've been working on it for it's
taken about a year to get this through.
This is the the titanium chunk for the
middle of it
>> and some of the details of it. This is
the the grub screws. These go in from
the outside. You slide your wing on and
then put the grub screws in. Uh it has a
center screw in there and underneath
that screw, it has a urethane uh spring
if you like. And this is a a a stainless
steel top plate. So the spring pulls
this top plate downwards.
>> You slide the wing on, put the grub
screws in, and you can see
when you tighten this up, you can see
that this opens. So this is an expansion
plate.
So, as you tighten this up,
>> you can see that widens the so it
tightens from the inside.
>> Oh, wow.
>> So, that expands and fills the gap
inside the hole.
>> Um, the shape of that, this one's for
the front wing, and it's it's got this
shape to try and lock it on there. You
can see it's also basically parallel and
parallel. You don't really want to
taper. If you've got a taper, it wants
to work its way off.
>> Yeah. Uh, and similar system for the
rear, but it's only got one screw and
that just clamps on for there. So, you
can see on this one, they're mostly a
dedicated rear and fuselage that just
fits onto there.
>> Mhm.
>> U, but we've also made an aluminum piece
and it has the same shape and that just
fits onto there, but it has our normal
uh rear on it so you can use all of your
existing rears. Uh we've got a a range
of of downwind wings uh from 1090 span
down to 890. They're primarily designed
for downwind, but that doesn't mean that
they're not good for a whole lot of
other things. Really applicable for
paring and also for uh winging. I use
the 1090 a lot for winging and basically
just going up wind, popping on a swell
and surfing off downwind.
>> Okay.
>> Work great for that. Very very being 16
aspect ratio, very very low drag.
>> Mhm. super easy to use. I've had a lot
of guys riding them that are not
necessarily that advanced and they
actually find it no harder than the
fireball to use,
>> but much much faster.
>> Uh
>> yeah, so not only for the full-on races,
but for everybody in between as well.
>> H Okay. And maneuverability, how'd you
manage that? Uh well, a big deal with
with this is as they get more and more
high aspect is actually retaining some
cord in the middle here so that it's
really well attached and then making the
the the tips narrower. And whenever you
make the tips narrow and wider in here,
you actually reduce what's called the
second moment of area for roll. So it
allows the wing to turn from side to
side really nicely. So that's actually a
really nice surf wing, which is not what
you would imagine it to be.
>> Exactly. That's what I was thinking.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's a high speed surfing.
It's not It's not carving in the pocket,
but
>> for for super high speed gliding, it's a
great fun wing to have.
>> Oh, beautiful.
>> So,
>> what else do you guys have new for this
year?
>> Uh, the other thing that's probably
worth showing you is the um the foil
drive pocket board. I'll just take this
off for now.
So, this is a um a trench board, but
it's it's covered at the front here. So
you slide it back, lift it out, you can
dry your your whole unit, change the
battery over, and you poke it back in
there. So your battery goes right in
underneath here. So when that goes in,
you've got big sliders there. The
sliders are are one piece, so they're
really easy to just drop in
and line up.
And then it just slides in, and then you
nip it up. You've still got some
adjustment four and a half, but you
know, it's designed primarily to be
ridden there. Really lightweight. And
you can see the there's no water flow.
There's when you lot of the trench
boards, they've left a really big gap so
you can undo the the side buckle.
>> Uh and they've also this is uncovered
and it and it ends up going right up to
here because you have to be able to lift
the battery off and the cover off.
>> Yeah. So, this is super super clean and
nice finish and
that easy to get it off.
>> Um, on top of that, uh, it's really
light. That board's I think it's only
about 3 and a half. It's under 4 kg.
It's lighter than the any of the trench
boards that are here. Um, and all of
this is fiberglass. The boxes I've made
of fiberglass and the the the board here
is fiberglass on the other side. This
whole area under the EVA is fiberglass
and this is fiberglass as well. The
reason being so the signal can get in
and out of here. Um, so there's we we
haven't been using this board with any
foam in the tracks and it's got a 100%
perfect signal. So lightweight, really
nice shape.
>> Pocket trench.
>> Well done.
So, another thing I wanted to cover over
was uh so the dock start pump wings.
This is a a 1750 span wing. We've been
playing with variations of this for
quite a few years now, and everyone's
sort of been saying, "Hurry up, release
it. Why aren't you releasing it?" But
with the higher span wings, you get your
glide from higher span wings, but you
also add drag. So we kept experimenting
experimenting and this particular one
here this is a a 1750 span. The aspect
ratio is uh over 20 uh and the area is
about 1500 squares for it. So very very
efficient glider. But to make this work
you actually need to have a really
serious connection between your your
mast and your fuselage. This is a new
mast that we've developed and it's
called a a fatty mast and a fatty
fuselage. comes in an 800 and a 900. And
it was designed primarily for for
driving a wing like this. So the the the
forces that you have on a on a on this
setup, you need a really really stiff
mast.
>> Um this mast here, um it's 800 long. And
if you're comparing it to the aluminium,
the power carbon, the power carbon high
modulus and the ultra. Uh if you have
the mast and you put 25 kg side load on
on the end of the mast and bend it, uh
the aluminium 19 mil aluminium bends
about 38 mil, the power carbon about 29
mil. The high modulus 22 mil, the ultra
about 19 mil. This one's 11.7.
So it's another league of stiffness. Now
that's achieved mainly through the thick
thickness. It's 18.1 mm thick. Um, but
because it's thick, we don't have to
build it out of ridiculously high
modulus carbon. So, the mast is actually
not that expensive.
>> Um, it has a new fuselage system, which
is also a fatty, and it's got a a wider,
thicker doodad, so that that mask can
fit straight into it. The bolts are
spaced further apart to to help with the
pitching when you're doing the pumping.
Uh and it's designed again primarily for
dock start pump but I think the biggest
market for this whole fatty fuse fatty
mass system will be uh with heavier
riders uh with bigger span wings. It'll
give them a level of control that
they've never experienced with
>> I can imagine
>> with winging. Now we've also got a
smaller version of the 1750 and this
one's uh 1500. Uh this one's 17 aspect
ratio. This is the one that Niko Itan
recently set a world record on. So he
docked start pumped this wing for 1 hour
and in 1 hour he covered 20.12 km. So he
was averaging 20.12
>> for for an hour.
>> Wow.
>> On that. So ridiculously fast.
>> Yeah.
>> You know a lot of doc start wings
there's no way you can even go that
fast. But he's averaged that for 1 hour.
>> Oh
>> So yeah. Uh the wing itself, this is
made of ultra high modulus carbon and
that is because it's very very thin and
you can see like I can barely bend the
end of that wing. It's very very thin
through there.
>> So
>> you almost think that thing would just
snap off. It's so thin.
>> It it Well, you you like getting that to
be really strong.
>> Yeah.
>> Took quite a bit of working out cuz it's
very, you know, there's not a lot of
thickness left in there.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Uh it's also a a new board. We've had
the uh 999 out for a while. This is an
899, so it's a much smaller version of
the same thing.
So, really cool dock start setup.
>> Very nice, Adrian. Hey, thanks for
sharing.
>> Cheers, Luke.
>> Hey, Luke. So, um I was going to tell
you a bit of a story about this new uh
downwind mask. So for the uh Maui race
series, I was there for 2 and 1/2 weeks
and we had a bunch of team riders uh
writing the tempos and and working out
everything. And during that process, we
kind of realized that, you know, the
fuselage was working well, the the front
wing, backwing, we're totally happy with
our race setup. We kind of noticed that
with the reduced drag and all of that
system, we actually needed a more
efficient mast, but we only had our our
72 and 800 Ultra Mast, the Ultra Pros.
that's all we had with us and we kind of
thought, oh, well, we'll just roll with
that. But then one one night I I kind of
worked out that we might be able to
actually sand the the woven carbon off
the outside of the mask. So, we took one
mask and we ground the uh woven carbon
off the outside of the mask. And the
mask went from 12 1/2 ms thick to uh we
got 1.1 mil off. So, uh 11
4 mil thick. So, I know,
>> but we basically took a mill off the
whole entire m top to bottom.
>> Wet sanded all the way through. It
actually reduced some cord and some
thickness and the guys tested it out and
it was way way better for up and overs
and getting getting through. So, made a
big difference for that. So, because it
worked so well, we had to do the mask
for all the other riders. So, we had to
do I don't know like 15 20 m. So, uh
Frank from we used Frank from Frank uh
foil boards. Um he did a lot of the
nasty grinding work uh and his sanding
bay and we we ground all the outside off
and went sanded them all through. Now he
had done just as a board for himself and
he had sanded the Axis logo off and um
resprayed it in gold and everyone was
asking about the gold logo. So we
thought well well we have to spray the
logo again. Let's do it with a gold
logo. So we rebuilt it with a gold logo
and that's what everybody raced with the
sand sanded out mask. So, this is
basically a redesigned mask where we've
absolutely minimized the cord and
minimized the thickness. This is only 11
mil through the bottom here. Uh, and we
did the the gold logo in recognition of
of that whole race series. So, um,
>> yeah, finally good to get that out
there. And this is ideally for
downwinding with the new tempo. It's
kind of a package. which I think I was
trying to uh explain, you know, with the
big wing uh that you need that big mass
to support it. Like typically in the old
days, you just bought an 800 mast if
that was the mass length you chose and
stuck whatever wing you wanted on it.
And I'm saying it's now time to think
about how heavy you are, what you're
planning to do with that mast, what wing
you're going to be using, and buying the
appropriate mast and fuselage setup to
work with that. So, this this is
absolute minimum drag, minimum
thickness, but it's really only for say
less than 90 kgs uh riding the tempo
range of wings. It's not for dock start
with big wings.
>> Mhm. All right. Fair enough.
>> Pretty pretty cool.
>> Yeah, I like that logo, too. Look at
that. Yeah. I mean, not the logo, but
just the the gold on